# BaghChalProjectBaghChal with MCTS

Welcome to the Sartorius project. Project Members: Hem Regmi https://github.com/hregmi77 , Rojina Panta

# Data Generation

The data here can be generated by running CollectectObservations.py.
The data is generated using minmax algorithm and random player.

The directory structure after CollectObservations.py will be

`
        ---------->BaghChaalProject
                 ------------>BaghAsMinMax_GoatAsMinMax
                 ------------>BaghAsMinMax_GoatAsRandom
                 ------------>GoatAsMinMax_BaghAsRandom
 
 `

We also have self curated humanplayerdata. The directory structure fo human player data will be 
  `      
        ------------>BaghChaalProject
                -------------->humanplayerdata
   `
   
It might ake a while to generate this data so we have also uploaded the data in drive which can be inserted inside project folder int the structure mentoned above.

This data is used for pretraining neural network.

# Training Network

There are two phases in which the network is trained.
Firstly the network is trained with data generated above.
And this trained network is again trained with MCTS algorithm during self play.

For this we run code main_baghchall_all.py

# Evaluation Network

For the evaluation of previously trained network we use evaluate_baghchal.py which saves the result of player currently playing (Tiger or Goat), which player won the game and the algorith with which trained mcts is playing. 


Here, we have three main files CollectObservations.py which collects data for pretraining neural network, main_baghchal_all.py which
is the core file of the project that collects data, pretrains model and run self play.

Then the other file is evlauate_baghchal.py with which we can evaluate the model that has been trained.
With play_baghchal_game.py we can play trained mcts with untrained minmax, untrained random player and untrained mcts.

The directory structure after CollectObservations.py will be

        ---------->BaghChaalProject
                 ------------>BaghAsMinMax_GoatAsMinMax
                 ------------>BaghAsMinMax_GoatAsRandom
                 ------------>GoatAsMinMax_BaghAsRandom

We also have self curated humanplayerdata. The directory structure fo human player data will be 
        ------------>BaghChaalProject
                -------------->humanplayerdata

The models that are trained with collected data and self play data are saved in models directory
        ---------->BaghChaalProject
                 ----->models
                    ----->model
                        ----->pretrain_model # for model trained with collected data
                        ----->self_play_model # for model trained with mcts self play with or without pretrained model
                        
The data trained with selfplay model is saved in folder selfplay_data
The data trained with selfplay model is saved in folder selfplay_data_only


Firstly create environmet usinf eirher requirement.txt or environment.yml file.

We can run the code by running main.py

Where we can choose between options
        [
            "Generate Data",
            "Train both pretrain model and self play model",
            "Load pretrained model and train self play with pretrained model",
            "Generate Data, train pretrain model",
            "Train with self play model only",
            "Play Baghchal",
            "Evaluate model",
            "Exit",
        ]
        
        The first option is used to generate data only.
        The second option is used to train both pretrain model with collected data and self play model.
        The third option is used to load previously trained pretrain model and self play model.
        The fourth option is used to generate data and train pretrain and self play model. This is if we want to start all the baghchal data collection and training process from scratch.
        The fifth option is used to train self play mcts model without pretrain model and colledted data.
        The sixth option is used to play baghchal using information from mcts network.
        The seventh option is used to evaluate result of previously trained model.
        The eigth option is used to get out of the main loop.

Here, since we have trained collected and trained data we can

run python main.py and select option 5.

But before than we have to downloadd all the required data which can be downloaded from following link.

But for that we will have to download data from ggogle drive and place it in BaghChal folder.
